# Questions

*Why?*
> 1. Where do you feel stuck?
2. Where do things feel broken?
3. What politics are involved here?
4. What do you wish you had more time to do?
5. What makes you angry?
6. When do you find yourself losing track of time?
> 7. In your day to day operations, what things do you find yourself complaining about?
8. If you had an extra hour in the day, how would you spend it?
> 9. What is wasted?
10. What problem are we solving? Why this a problem worth solving?
> 11. Currently, what things make this problem worse? What things make this problem less of a problem?
> 12. What don’t we understand yet?
13. What are the edges of the problem? What is out of bounds of this problem space, or what problem are we not solving?
> 14. What ways have people tried to solve this problem previously? Were they successful?
15. What are we most passionate about?
16. What behaviors need to happen in order for this initiative to be successful?
17. What do you wish someone else would do for you?
> 18. If this product were magic, how would that experience look?
19. What battle are we fighting?
20. Who is the hero in this story? What makes them a hero?
21. What achievements are we most proud of?
22. What characteristics or attributes of this thing or this group are we most proud of?
23. At the end of the day, what is the story we want to tell?
24. In what ways may our educational background influence the way we understand this thing? What about cultural or socioeconomic background?
25. How will we handle conflict?
> 26. What are we assuming will happen if we build this?
27. If I could know anything in the world about how people are using my product, what would I want to know to in order to tell me whether or not my product was successful?
28. What wears you out?
> 29. What are the most/least appealing aspects of this product?
