# Workflow Playbook
A general outline for our procedures for development, organization, and kicking ass. In progress and everyone is welcome to edit via pull requests. 

## Product
### Sprints
Following the agile norm of sprints, we work in bursts (1 - 2 weeks). The nature of how the sprint happens depends on what the end goal is. 

For starting a new feature / new product, we should follow the [thoughtbot style](https://robots.thoughtbot.com/the-product-design-sprint) of 
` understand > diverge > converge > prototype > test `
This allows for iterative, user validated, Products That People Want, which is pretty neat.

## Communication
Talking is important. Over communication is good. Our primary asynchronous communication channel is Slack, it's lovely. Meetings in person should be [avoided like the plague](https://gettingreal.37signals.com/ch07_Meetings_Are_Toxic.php).* Telephones/Facetime/Hangouts/Skype are cool for those that can't make it to meetings.

It should go without saying – but I'll iterate it anyways – work communication should _always_ be honest, direct, and supportive. But not like 'everyone gets a prize for participation' supportive, because that's bullshit and doesn't help anyone. We're all friends, but we're also adults and have to be able to seperate emotion from our work. Be passionate, but if someone (supportively) critiques the shit out of your design, an investor says 'lolyoureanidiot', or you accidently introduce an infinite loop into the database and crash it, it's cool (as long as you fix it).
> You are not your work and your work is not you. Don't take it personally.
It's cheesy, but we're all in this together and here to make awesome stuff come to life not get offended that we had the wrong colour blue in the design.

Weekly meetings to check in on sprint progress are the exception to 'meetings should be avoided like the plague'. 
Concerns should be brought up without hesitation. 

### Daily stand ups
Accountability is good, celebrating progress and successes is better. The best way of celebrating is loudly and proudly telling everyone else what you're going to kick ass on today. If we had an office we'd take 5 minutes at the start of the day and chat about it, but we're poor and don't have one of those.

Your post doesn't have to say "RAAAHHH I'M GONNA FINISH THIS FEATURE!!" because sometimes shit comes up. Saying you'll _work_ on the feature is a better play and then celebrating the shit out of it when you're done and tell everyone about it the next day. An example stand up could look something like:

```
  Bob Ross: Here's my daily stand up:
  Yesterday, I said I was going to work on painting some trees, painting a lake, and recording at least two episodes. I painted some trees, got half way done with the lake, but didn't get to recording the second episode because I got high.
  Today I'm going to work on painting some more and recording that second episode.

```
A daily stand up should always answer 'What am I going to work on today?', but can include things like requests for information, how other people's projects are going, or what you're working on this week.

## Planning
### Trello
We use Trello for managing our development and to-dos. 
Here's the flow. 
1. To-be-implimented features go in the features column. 
2. When you've decided to tackle something, assign the card to yourself and drag it to the in development column. 
3. Once it's ready for review, move it along to the review section and nag a couple people about giving some feedback. 
4. If everything is groovy, place it in the finished column. If it needs more work, repeat step 2.
5. Repeat until the sprint is finished.
• Things that are blocked either due to _force majeure_, broken things or otherwise go in the Blocked column.
### Github
If you're developing, follow [thoughtbot's](https://github.com/thoughtbot/guides/tree/master/protocol/git) guide for git protocol. (TL;DR: make feature branch, code passes tests, rebase interactively and pull upstream changes, write a good commit message, merge, delete local and repo branches). 

## Additional reading
### Product design
Julie Zhou's blog ["The Year of the looking glass"](https://medium.com/the-year-of-the-looking-glass/building-products-91aa93bea4bb#.pcsoxep8r) is pretty much a god send. Read it, love it.
Thoughtbot's [playbook](playbook.thoughtbot.com) is 80% of what I'm basing this off of.

Questions? Comments? PR + edit.
